api-reference/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "WMS API Introduction"
description: "REST API for managing participant data in PostgreSQL with tenant isolation"
---

## 🌐 Base URL

**Production API:** `https://api.checkpoint.b-digital.uk`

All endpoints are prefixed with `/api/v1`

## 🔐 Authentication

The API supports two authentication methods:

### API Key Authentication (Recommended)

Include your API key in every request using the `X-API-Key` header:

```bash
X-API-Key: your-api-key-here
```

<Info>
  API keys allow admins to access the API without Firebase. Generate your API key using the [API Keys guide](/essentials/api-keys).
</Info>

### Firebase Token Authentication

Include your Firebase ID token in the `Authorization` header:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer YOUR_FIREBASE_ID_TOKEN
```

## 📋 Response Format

All API responses follow a consistent format:

### Success Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "meta": { ... }  // For list endpoints
}
```

### Error Response

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": {
    "code": "ERROR_CODE",
    "message": "Human readable message",
    "details": "Additional details (optional)"
  }
}
```

## 🔒 Multi-Tenant Isolation

All endpoints automatically scope data to your tenant. You can only access data belonging to your organization.

## 📊 Available Resources

- **Participants** - Manage participant/member data
- **Instances** - Manage camp/session instances
- **Groups** - Manage supergroups and subgroups
- **Blocks & Rooms** - Manage location assignments
- **API Keys** - Manage authentication keys

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Get your API key** - See [API Keys guide](/essentials/api-keys)
2. **Make your first request** - Use the examples in each endpoint section
3. **Check the health endpoint** - Verify API is running

```bash
curl https://api.checkpoint.b-digital.uk/health
```

Commit message:

Remove all emojis and add OpenAPI spec for interactive playground
- Remove all emojis from documentation files
- Create comprehensive OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification
- Add API playground page with OpenAPI integration
- Update navigation to include playground

api-reference/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "WMS API Introduction"
description: "REST API for managing participant data in PostgreSQL with tenant isolation"
---

## Base URL

**Production API:** `https://api.checkpoint.b-digital.uk`

All endpoints are prefixed with `/api/v1`

## Authentication

The API supports two authentication methods:

### API Key Authentication (Recommended)

Include your API key in every request using the `X-API-Key` header:

```bash
X-API-Key: your-api-key-here
```

<Info>
  API keys allow admins to access the API without Firebase. Generate your API key using the [API Keys guide](/essentials/api-keys).
</Info>

### Firebase Token Authentication

Include your Firebase ID token in the `Authorization` header:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer YOUR_FIREBASE_ID_TOKEN
```

## Response Format

All API responses follow a consistent format:

### Success Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": { ... },
  "meta": { ... }  // For list endpoints
}
```

### Error Response

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "error": {
    "code": "ERROR_CODE",
    "message": "Human readable message",
    "details": "Additional details (optional)"
  }
}
```

## Multi-Tenant Isolation

All endpoints automatically scope data to your tenant. You can only access data belonging to your organization.

## Available Resources

- **Participants** - Manage participant/member data
- **Instances** - Manage camp/session instances
- **Groups** - Manage supergroups and subgroups
- **Blocks & Rooms** - Manage location assignments
- **API Keys** - Manage authentication keys

## Quick Start

1. **Get your API key** - See [API Keys guide](/essentials/api-keys)
2. **Make your first request** - Use the examples in each endpoint section or the API playground below
3. **Check the health endpoint** - Verify API is running

```bash
curl https://api.checkpoint.b-digital.uk/health
```

## Interactive API Playground

Use the interactive API playground below to test endpoints directly from the documentation. The playground supports both API key and Firebase token authentication.
